barbecue food for you today showing
everyone meatheads method to make bacon
from scratch from amazing ribs calm to
get the wet maple cured together it's
real easy here's the ingredients you're
going to need from one pound of meat if
you have to three pounds just double
triple all the ingredients give it a
quick stir and mix everything all
together now this is only enough for one
pound of meat and we're going to be
doing a little bit more than all stir it
up enough cure for four pounds of pork
belly let's get it out of the fridge if
your butcher hasn't done it go in remove
any little thin membranes and excess fat
just roughly slice it into four
one-pound pieces take your wet cure
mixture and evenly dispense it into use
ziplock bags add the pork bellies to the
ziplock bags seal it up and try and get
as much air out as you can once you have
it all sealed up take the pork belly
with the wet cure and just give it a
little massage then place it in the
fridge for seven to ten days at 34 to 38
degrees once a day take the bacon out of
the fridge give it a gentle massage so
the wet cure penetrates deep into the
meat Bacon's been in the wet cure for 10
days now we're going to take it out
discard any excess liquid and give it a
rinse under some cold water then just
Pat it dry with some paper towel to
smoke the bacon we're going to be using
our weber 22 and a half inch kettle load
it up with Kingsford original blue
briquettes for 2-zone indirect cooking
the wood we're going to be using is
chunks of Applewood from Good Earth
fruit wood I got to thank big Sid at
strolls barbecue for letting me try it
let's get a couple these Applewood
chunks on and let them start smoking
away before we put the bacon on it
got the bacon on with our maverick ready
check all set up to keep an eye on the
temperatures shut the lid let it smoke
for around an hour and a half to two
hours and she'll be all done when
cooking low and slow to add a couple
more briquettes I like to start them on
the side burner get them nice and hot
and then throw them on with a pair of
tongs looking good
shut the lid let that keep cooking till
you hit an internal temp of 150 degrees
Bacon's been smoking for around two
hours now maverick ready check says
we're sitting at 151 we'll go in with a
thermo pen check the temperatures 145
151 we're going to take these two top
pieces off and let the bottom ones cook
for a little bit more the two top pieces
of bacon are just off the grill we're
going to place it in the fridge for an
hour - to make it easier to slice up
bacon all cool down and just out of the
fridge now you can slice it with a knife
but we're going to be using this food
slicer with the bacon all sliced up
tightly wrap it in saran wrap you can
place it in the fridge for up to two
weeks or in the freezer for a couple
months now time to cook it up throw it
on a frying pan cook up some bacon on
the grill
um or put it back on the grill for some
extra smokey bacon smoked bacon just off
the grill homemade bacon from scratch
following meatheads in-depth information
on amazing ribs calm it's easy to do
barbecue food for you
give it a try